Batista leads a series of puppet presidents - 1934-1940
During this period Batista ruled from behind the scenes, controlling the country but not directly it’s figurehead. This improved the appearance of his regime somewhat, but did not provide much if any actual change in policies.
Bay of Pigs Incident occurs - 17 April 1961
The US-sponsored botched invasion of cuba occurs. Cuban expats aim to overthrow castro, but the US pulls out from providing air support at the last minute. The fail and Cuba uses it to embarrass the US.
ORPC founded - January 1959
Office of the Revolutionary Plans and Co-ordination was founded and contained some close friends of Castro. This situation of ‘Dual Power’ between the ORPC and the Cabinet created some strife. 
Battle for Sugar takes place - November 1969
Castro’s plan for expansion of sugar harvests initially calls for 10 million tons, but in the end 8.5 million tons are produced - still a record breaking over-double number. This was helped by Soviet assistance in modernizing the sugar industry.
Prior to this date only 15% of the rural inhabitants had running water - 1959
Revolutionary policies for housing were not great, but sanitation and medical systems improved. Not really sure what goes with this.
Family Code adopted in this year - March 1975
The Family Code took a government stand against traditions of patriarchy and male dominance by asserting in law that the partners would be equal. It also set law about the nature and legal functioning of marriage.
Castro makes his proclamation against discrimination speech - March 1959
The “color question”, as he called it, had not been an integral part of the revolution, but with this speech he made it a policy of the state. This involved repealing laws that allowed discrimination and providing some protections.
Castro makes his history will absolve me speech - 16 October 1953
On trial for the Moncada attack, Castro makes this speech in which he argues that history will view him favourably. He, Raul, and others are convicted but do not serve their full terms.
Castro leads attacks on Moncada barracks - 26 July 1953
A young and idealistic Castro, leading a band of rebels, storm the Moncada barracks and are quickly defeated. Many are killed and the survivors are sent to prison.
Batista rules Cuba directly for the first time - 14 July 1940
After being elected directly, Batista rules cuba directly (not via a puppet.) He is not very successful, and is replaced by Grau in the next election.
Eisenhower administration severs diplomatic relations with Cuba - 3 January 1961
Eisenhower closes the US embassy and formally severs relations with Cuba. This is the last brick in the wall of the embargo that will continue for many years.
Economic embargo by US on Cuba - February 1962
In response to the Cuban nationalization of Produce and Telephone industries, FDR authorizes a complete economic embargo on Cuba.
The Cuban Missile Crisis occurs - 16 October 1962
Soviet missiles are stationed in cuba for a time, and tensions mount with the US. Eventually, the USSR and Cuba back down, and war is averted.
Washington abrogates the Platt Amendment - 9 June 1934
When Batista overthrows Grau, the Platt Amendment is replaced with the new Cuban-American treaty of Relations of 1934. This continues to allow the naval base, but somewhat lessens the US’s direct control.
Castro comes back to Cuba in the Granma - 2 December 1956
With a small number of other revolutionaries, Castro arrives back on Cuban soil in a rural part of the island. Expecting him earlier, other parts of the island jumped the gun on a revolution, tipping off the military. Some are killed, but Castro and the leadership make it to the mountains, where the proceed to run their guerrilla campaign
Cuba signs trade deal with the Soviet Union - July 1959
The USSR agrees to buy a million tons (initially 500,000, but upped) of sugar a year, and to allow part of its payment to be redeemed in supplies for expanding industry and other assets. This provides an essential economic lifeline to the island after the US stopped trading.
Castro gives his first manifesto - 23 July 1953
Castro's’ first manifesto, titled Manifesto of the Revolutionaries of Moncada to the Nation is the first in a propaganda tradition of his. He viewed the continuing creation of manifestos as an important tool.
Cuban communists begin to support Castro in the revolution - July 1961
Communists are rolled into the Integrated Revolutionary Organization, and quickly dominate it. Castro acknowledges Marxist ideas, and puts them into action.
All US owned business and public utilities were nationalized - September 1960
In response to the US setting a maximum sugar import from Cuba, Castro nationalizes all US business on the island in retaliation. This really irritates the US government, and just makes their sanctions harsher.
Castro goes to Russia to visit Khrushchev - April 1963
Invited by Khrushchev, Castro and other party leaders stay in moscow. Castro agrees to follow the policy of peaceful coexistence reluctantly. Strengthens the USSR-Cuba relationship.
Castro launches attack on PSP party leader, Anibal  Escalante - March 1962
Castro views Escalante as having dishonestly packed the PSP with his supporters, and launches a political attack against him.
In this period 40,000 emigrants left Cuba - 1959-1961
Mainly supporters of Batista, many cubans flee the island. This would be a pattern, with a number of other exoduses occurring later. This helps stabilize the political climate, as many who would have opposed castro leave.
Agrarian Reform Act passed - 17 May 1954
The Agrarian Reform Act implemented land redistribution in Cuba, latifundias are broken up and given to peasants and other landless citizens. Some larger farms are state-run. Over 40% of Cuban Farmland is redistributed via this program.
Mass Literacy Campaign begins - 1961
1961 is designated the ‘Year of Education’, and over 100,000 volunteer teachers take part in a expanding education program. It succeeds in boosting the average literacy from illiterate to eighth-grade level by 1979.
