FDR In Office - FDR In Office (March 4, 1933 -> April 12, 1945 - Relief + Recovery + Reform)
FDR in office during this period.
AAA - Agricultural Adjustment Act (May 12, 1933 -> January 6, 1936 - Relief + Recovery)
The AAA was an act that created the Agricultural Adjustment Administration. This was a governmental organization that was in charge of regulating the production of crops by subsidizing farmers not to produce. The goal of this was to limit the overproduction of crops and therefore raise their prices. It was paid for by a tax on food processors and exporters, but this was eventually found unconstitutional.
CCC - Civilian Conservation Corps (April 5, 1933 -> June 30, 1942 - Relief + Recovery)
The CCC was a program that provided jobs to young men to encourage them to stay in school. It created mostly labor jobs, planting over 3 million trees and building trails and roads. There was a separate, segregated, wing of the CCC for African Americans.
FDIC - Federal Deposit Income Corporation (June 16, 1933 - Relief + Reform)
The FDIC was a measure to prevent banks from folding, and to maintain the value of American's deposits. It was created as part of the 1933 Banking Act under FDR as part of the immediate changes to go hand-in-hand with the bank holiday.
TVA - Tennessee Valley Authority (May 18, 1933 - Relief + Recovery)
The Tennessee Valley Authority was created to begin and manage a series of dams and other public works projects in the Tennessee Valley area to provide employment to the people of the area. 
WPA - Works Progress Administration (May 6, 1935 -> June 30, 1943 - Recovery)
The Works Progress (later Projects) Administration was a agency tasked with providing jobs to out-of-works Americans. It built many parks and similar public works projects, and employed many americans. It was established later, as part of the Second New Deal.
NRA - National Recovery Administration (June 16, 1933 -> May 27, 1935 - Recovery)
The National Recovery Administration was an organization created to lessen the competition in industry and provide more fair working conditions and competitive practices. This helped allow the economy to grow again, as by setting minimum prices and maximum hours, businesses were forced (while technically the NRA was optional, many businesses that did not join were boycotted) to provide a living wage to workers.
Wagner Act - Right to Unionize {aka National Labor Relations Act} (July 5, 1935 - Reform)
The Wagner Act was a later (Second New Deal) law that established a right for workers to collaborate and unionize. This helped get rid of horrible working conditions and provide living wage jobs.
Social Security - Federal Retirement (August 14, 1935 - Relief + Reform)
The Social Security Administration is established to provide government-supported support for retired workers.Initially, this was only planned to directly support a retired worker, and would later be greatly expanded to spouses, children and other dependants. This provided some help initially (admittedly late, as it was part of the Second New Deal and no payouts occurred until 1937) and continued to exist, acting as retirement reform.
IRA - Indian Reorganization Act (June 18, 1934 - Reform)
Sometimes known as the 'Indian New Deal,' this act changed the status of Native American reservations in the US. It returned the land and economy of these reservations to direct control of the tribes, and provided a new economic base for trade with the US. It returned the mineral and land rights to direct native control, as opposed to tribal lands being partitioned out to individuals.
NIRA - National Industrial Recovery Act (June 16, 1933 -> May 27, 1935 - Recovery)
Corollary to NRA for industry, created regulations for industry. Similarly optional participation Declared unconstitutional in 1935 and not replaced. This also protects collective bargaining rights for workers.
REA - Rural Electrification Act (May 20, 1936 - Relief + Reform)
This provided federal funds directly to projects aimed at providing electrical power to rural areas. This was also an attempt to lower unemployment, as it created many federally funded jobs in these electrification projects.
National Housing Act - Federal Housing Administration (June 28, 1934 - Relief + Reform)
Attempts to make housing and mortgages more available, and to stop home foreclosures. Also provides funds to projects to clear slums and build housing solutions.
2nd AAA - Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 (February 16, 1938 - Recovery + Reform)
Does the same stuff as first AAA (limiting production of farms by paying farmers not to plant) but does not collect a tax from processors and exporters, and therefore doesn't get ruled unconstitutional.
Glass Steagall Banking Act - Actually 4 acts (June 16, 1933 - Reform)
Prohibits investment banking institutions from also investing in unsafe securities and similar risky options. This was an attempt to stabilize the financial market and prevent another situation like the great depression where banks did not actually have the money people had deposited.
NLRB - National Labor Relations Board (July 5, 1935 - Relief + Reform)
This board was a entity dedicated to enforcing labor legislation to allow collective bargaining and similar practices. This was empowered by the provisions of the Wagner Act. Initially established by FDR to support the rights established as part of the NIRA.
SEC - Securities and Exchange Commission (June 6, 1934 - Reform)
The SEC was established to regulate and limit speculation and other practices in the stock market and other exchanges. Requires disclosure of information about stocks and other securities, effectively stopping a lot of the corruption in that industry.
Emergency Banking Act - Stop Bank Closings (March 9, 1933 - Relief + Recovery)
This act gave the federal reserve the power to issue more money to banks with good assets, to allow them to reopen (this was the act passed during the bank holiday) and allow people to withdraw loans. This was a critical element of how FDR stabilized the banking system.
FERA - Federal Emergency Relief Administration (May 1, 1933 -> December 1, 1935 - Relief)
This is FDR's continuation to Hoover's Emergency Relief Administration. It gave federal money to states to provide their own relief programs. It was replaced in 1935 by the Works Progress Administration, which served the same goal at a federal level.